[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
chris mason and nina warhorst
i headlines today gps in england are
given extra funding to vaccinate
house-bound patients
ahead of the government's mid-february
deadline
workplace covered testing is to be
expanded with more companies offered
rapid results kits for staff who can't
work from home
large parts of the uk could see snow
today it's already arrived here in kent
the wind is whipping up too
and it's absolutely freezing
good morning we have some cold days
ahead with
biting easterly winds that easterly wind
is also
going to deliver some pretty heavy snow
showers for some
more details on the areas most likely to
be affected coming up
the six nations is back with a bang
scotland beat england to lift the
calcutta cup for the first time at
twickenham
since 1983.
[Music]
and yes she did spot the broadest smile
in our studio just there
from uh jane it's uh two minutes past
eight morning to you sunday the
seventh of february our top story gps in
england are to be paid an extra 10
pounds by the nhs
for every housebound person they
vaccinate it's part of government
measures to protect
everyone aged 70 and over together with
frontline health workers
by february the 15th it comes as 18 new
mass vaccine centers open tomorrow
here's our science correspondent palab
ghosh
gp george hobbs is headed out to give
around 20 of his patients kovid jabs at
home
they're too ill or vulnerable to come in
for a vaccination
first up is diana garfield right okay
one two three
so we'll get it in for you who has heart
problems and is also losing her sight
there still is a hope in the back of my
mind however old i am i still have that
hope that um something will work out
all right cheerio then it's great
because i've been a gp for 27 years and
and
they know me so i think when they see
someone familiar coming
it makes a real difference to the
experience but
quite a lot of them are quite nervous
and then when they see someone they know
um that's very reassuring hello hi we're
calling from ash tree surgery
ash tree surgery in khan forth in
lancashire is on course to vaccinate its
most vulnerable patients by the middle
of this month
but that's not the case everywhere so
gps will receive an additional
10 pounds on top of the standard fee for
every housebound person they vaccinate
yes this will be helpful it does take
significantly longer
to go out and visit someone and to take
the necessary time of precautions
in each and every visit um and that
takes people away from the vaccination
center where they could do
more vaccinations in a similar amount of
time so we do need to recognize that and
it's good that nhs england
have done that and provided this
additional small amount of funding
to enable practices to provide
vaccinations to this
particularly vulnerable group of people
as quickly as possible
the latest data shows that more than
11.4 million people have received their
first dose
that's a rise of just over 494
000 on the previous 24-hour reporting
period
at this rate of vaccination the nhs
would need to give jabs to an average of
just
under 393 000 people a day
in order to meet the government's target
of 15 million first doses
by the 15th of february and the scottish
government has said that it's met
its target to vaccinate the over 80s by
the 5th of february
there are to be 18 more vaccination
sites opening from next week
like the one at blackburn cathedral the
new sites mean that jabs are now
available from more than a hundred
large-scale centres
a thousand local gp services almost
200 pharmacies and over 250 hospitals
palab gauche bbc news
the oxford extra astrazeneca coronavirus
vaccine may offer only limited
protection against
mild disease caused by the south african
variant that's according to a new small
trial
but the firm said it believed the
vaccine could still protect against
severe disease we're joined now by our
health reporter
jim reid and jim it's so tricky isn't it
trying to weigh up how much significance
we should attach to these
kind of developments when often we're
seeing research much earlier than we
would do normally because
people want to put it out there but
there's a danger of us panicking
unnecessarily
what's your assessment morning chris yes
so this is news out overnight in fact
from the team at oxford university
and the drugs company astrazeneca that
have developed this particular
vaccine now they've been running trials
in south africa to see how well their
vaccine
protects against this variant first
discovered there last year
is one that scientists are particularly
concerned about
should point out it's a very small study
about 2 000 people
we won't get the full results until
tomorrow the more reassuring news is the
company said this morning they do
believe this vaccine will still protect
against the severe form of the disease
uh related to that south african variant
but as you say in these trials it did
only show limited protection
against mild and moderate forms so what
does that mean well look if these
results were
repeated in real life these clinical
trial results
it could mean that someone would not
need to maybe go into hospital
if they caught this variant of
coronavirus but it might not necessarily
stop them
actually catching it and then crucially
potentially being able to pass it on to
others
but these results are not unexpected
tests on other vaccines
have shown a very similar pattern with
this south african variant
important thing though all vaccine
manufacturers say they should be able to
tweak their products
to better protect against this south
african strain nikki kanani who's the
medical director of primary care for
nhs england was asked about that on the
last hour on breakfast
we do know that a little bit like flu
people who design vaccines who create
vaccines do you have to keep looking at
um
what that vaccine contains because we
often have to
um light the flu offer the vaccine on a
yearly basis to reflect any changes in
strains of the
of the virus so you know that is
something that we're thinking about and
we're working very closely with
scientists to understand
um what we will need to do after we
vaccinated
um uh our country um in in this first
phase of the vaccination program
also worth pointing out that astrazeneca
have said this morning they will be able
to tweak this vaccine they think if
necessary
and we should get that updated version
that does better protect against this
south african variant
by the autumn if needed worth saying
that this south african variant chris is
not
widespread in the uk there's only been
around 100 cases confirmed so far
and there has been a travel ban in place
from south africa
and that part of southeast africa since
christmas eve
thank you jim police are continuing to
investigate a series of stabbings that
took place in london over the past 48
hours
a 22 year old man died and nine others
were injured in five
separate incidents in the croydon area
on friday night
another man in his twenties died in
kilburn in northwest london yesterday
evening
police say they aren't connected and
have condemned the violence as
needless and abhorrent let's talk about
the weather
next heavy snow could bring significant
disruption to the southeast of england
in the coming hours
simon is in lid near dover where an
amber weather warning
is in place how are you faring simon
well i can tell you it is very very cold
it's wet
and it's windy and the snow has been
coming down for around
four hours now it's certainly settling
it's pretty icy and treacherous on the
roads and pavements but creating
some picture-perfect scenes over there a
bit of a winter wonderland
but there is an amber weather warning in
place for all of today
covering kent large parts of the
southeast and also
east anglia and we're told in certain
places there could be up to
centimeters of snow and it's not just
the snow that's going to be an issue
we've got storm
darcy blowing through we're told there
could be gusts of up to
50 miles an hour i'm adding to that
really the wind chill although the
temperature is probably around
freezing it feels more like about minus
seven
out here now potentially there could be
problems on the roads
rail disruption to southeastern here in
kent
have decided to cancel some services
already and they're saying to people
please don't travel at all stay indoors
don't try and go out now in terms of
what we're expecting i've been contacted
by some people a little disappointed
actually close to here who say well
where is the snow it's certainly snowing
heavily here but
in areas nearby they've largely had rain
well we're told potentially that rain
is going to turn to snow so if you
haven't got it yet
you may well have it in the coming hours
and as simon said very nice to look at
less pleasant to get stuck in isn't it
so do take care out there
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news